---
description: An overview of how Sismo uses data.
---

# How Sismo Works

The Sismo protocol enables communication between a user’s personal data and applications. The following components are fundamental in facilitating this communication:

* Data Sources — accounts and other credentials aggregated in a user’s Data Vault
* Data Gems — granular pieces of personal data aggregated in a user’s Data Vault
* Proving schemes — cryptographic circuits that verify ownership of Data Gems
* The Sismo Hub — Sismo’s data infrastructure open to all

Sismo enables users to freely leverage Data Sources and Data Gems, bypassing the typical privacy limitations associated with web3 and the constraint of being confined to a single platform on web2.

## What are Data Sources?

Data Sources are the accounts, attestations and other credentials that users aggregate in their Data Vault. Users can prove ownership of Data Sources to authenticate themselves to applications via Sismo Connect.

Examples of Data Sources include:

* Web3 accounts (Ethereum addresses owned by a private key)
* Web2 accounts (GitHub, Twitter, Telegram, Discord)
* Attestations issued by governments, institutions, etc (coming soon)

## What are Data Gems?

Data Gems are the granular pieces of personal data that users selectively reveal to applications via Sismo Connect. They are derived from the Data Sources aggregated in a user’s Data Vault.

All Data Gems have the following characteristics:

* An owner - an associated Ethereum address or web2 account
* A value - a number corresponding to a certain level of reputation
* A type - a unique ID used to identify the Data Gem
* A proving scheme - the associated proving system used to establish ownership of Data Gems

Examples of Data Gems include:

* Contributors to Sismo
* Gitcoin Passport holders
* French citizens

## What are Proving Schemes?

Sismo enables users to prove ownership of Data Gems by participating in proving schemes. Fundamentally, a proving scheme is a paired concept involving a prover and a verifier. The prover generates proofs while the verifier checks the validity of these proofs.

In a proving scheme, both the prover and the verifier require access to the same data—the source of truth from which proofs are generated. For instance, to prove ownership of a specific NFT at a certain time, the prover and verifier must be synchronized on the same snapshot of NFT owners.

In addition, each proving scheme needs access to data in a specific format. For example, Hydra proving schemes need access to the Merkle registry tree containing all groups of Data Gem owners. Other proving schemes could require access to different data, such as public keys from issuers of trusted attestations.

The unique relationship between the prover and verifier dictates that each verifier can only verify ZKPs that have been generated by the corresponding prover. In other words, ZKPs and their verification are intrinsically linked within each scheme.

Sismo Connect is the developer-friendly layer on top of proving schemes. It enables apps to request and verify ownership data, either Data Sources or Data Gems. Sismo Connect routes these requests to the associated proving scheme.

Currently, Sismo has the following proving schemes deployed:

* [Hydra S1 proving scheme](https://www.notion.so/sismo-docs/knowledge-base/resources/technical-concepts/proving-schemes/hydra-s1)
* [Hydra S2 proving scheme](https://www.notion.so/sismo-docs/knowledge-base/resources/technical-concepts/proving-schemes/hydra-s2)

These schemes are part of the Hydra family, a collection of proving schemes utilizing ZKPs in combination with Sismo’s Commitment Mapper.

## What is the Sismo Hub?

Proving schemes need access to data in a specific, agreed-upon format to function. The Sismo Hub is Sismo’s data infrastructure—open for anyone to use. It is the tool that standardizes raw data for the Sismo communication protocol, thus anchoring data to proving schemes and defining new Data Gems.

Hydra proving schemes use onchain Merkle roots as sources of truth. The Sismo Hub generates Data Groups and transforms them into Merkle registry trees—publishing them onchain. Future proving schemes could utilize different sources of truth, such as public keys issued by centralized entities.

Data Groups essentially function as snapshots of a dataset at a given point in time. For example, to generate or verify the ownership proof of an NFT at a specific moment, both the prover and verifier need to align on a snapshot of NFT owners during that period.

{% hint style="info" %}
While Sismo manages the maintenance of Data Groups, anyone can create and register a Data Group via the Sismo Hub—either via a pull request or the [Sismo Factory](https://factory.sismo.io/) (a no-code interface).
{% endhint %}

In addition to Data Groups, the Sismo Hub manages the creation and maintenance of Data Providers. They allow for the programmatic updates of Data Groups, further ensuring that provers and verifiers always work with the most relevant data.

By organizing and anchoring data for proving schemes, the Sismo Hub plays a crucial role in facilitating the creation of Data Gems—giving application developers the power to request and verify ownership of them via Sismo Connect.
