# Technical Glossary

This technical glossary is aimed to provide a broad overview of Sismo Attesters and Attestations.

For a more concrete view of Sismo protocol, head to the [examples](attesters-examples/) section which goes over both simple and advanced use cases in more detail.

## Groups

<table><thead><tr><th width="150">Term</th><th width="434.4285714285714">Description</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td><strong>Account</strong></td><td>An account is a pair of an <strong>account identifier</strong> (e.g an Ethereum address, github username or twitter username) and a particular <strong>value</strong> (e.g number of votes submitted to the ENS DAO or number of twitter followers).</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Group of Accounts</strong></td><td><p>A group bundles accounts that share reputation or historical characteristics. The group can either exist on-chain (e.g current owners of an ERC20 token) or off-chain (e.g ENS DAO Voters, generated off-chain on June 10th, 2022).<br></p><p>Group examples:</p><ul><li>ENS DAO voters. Account values = number of votes</li><li>Early Ethereum users. Account values = number of transactions made before 2018</li><li>Ethereum Clients Github Contributors. Account values = number of commits</li><li>Accounts with high DeFi reputation. Account values = DegenScore score</li><li>Sismo followers on Lens. Account values = Date of follow</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td><strong>User Claim</strong></td><td><p>A user claim targets a specific group. It consists of:</p><ul><li><p>A targeted group identifier </p><ul><li>"I own an account that's part of the 'ENS DAO voters' group"</li><li>"I own a Lens profile that's part of the 'Sismo followers' group"</li></ul></li><li><p>A claimed value </p><ul><li>"I voted more than 3 times in the ENS DAO"</li><li>"I followed Sismo on Lens before June 15th, 2022"</li></ul></li><li><p>ExtraData: optional additional data that might be required and verified by an attester</p><ul><li>"generationTimestamp of the group is June 10th, 2022"</li></ul></li></ul></td></tr></tbody></table>

## Attesters

<table><thead><tr><th width="150">Term</th><th width="434.4285714285714">Description</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td><strong>Available Groups (Attester Data)</strong></td><td>A group is said to be available for an attester when the attester has access to on-chain data in the specific format that it requires. This enables the attester to validate user claims. <br><br>Most attesters require a third party to post on-chain data (e.g merkle roots), though some just read from the EVM directly. Each available group in the context of an attester has a group identifier.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Standard User Request (Attester Input)</strong></td><td><p>A user request targets a specific attester and specific groups of that attester. It has two components:</p><ul><li>a set of claims: "I have an account with value >3 in the available group #5 of the attester, and an account with the value 0 in the available group #10 of the attester"</li><li>a destination: "I want to receive the attestation on this destination"</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td><strong>Proof (Attester Input)</strong></td><td>Arbitrary data required by the attester to validate the request "Here is proof for my claims and proof that I own the destination"</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Attester: verifyRequest (Attester internal function)</strong></td><td><p>Each attester has its own way to verify user requests. </p><ul><li>Some attesters simply check on-chain states (e.g NFT.balanceOf(sourceAccount) > 0) </li><li>Some others verify Merkle Proofs from a group root made available to them</li><li>ZK Attesters verify Zero Knowledge Proofs (ZKP)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td><strong>Attester: buildAttestations (Attester internal function)</strong></td><td><p>Once an attester has verified a user's request, it constructs one or multiple attestations. Each attester has its own logic to construct attestations from verified user requests.<br><br>Example: Alice claims to be part of the 'ENS DAO Voters' group with 5 votes, and wants the attestation on 0x2.</p><ul><li>Attester 1 logic:  User will receive an attestation from the collection #132 which regroups all ENS DAO Voters.</li></ul><ul><li>Attester 2 logic: User will receive an attestation from the collection #99 which regroups all voters of public good DAOs.</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td><strong>Attestation Recording (Attester Output)</strong></td><td>All generated attestations are stored in the Attestations Registry, a contract that keeps all user attestations in collections.</td></tr></tbody></table>

## Attestations Registry

<table><thead><tr><th width="150">Term</th><th width="434.4285714285714">Description</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td><strong>Attestation</strong></td><td><p>An attestation is a certificate that proves a fact. Attestations are bundled in collections. An attestation consists of: </p><ul><li>An owner (address)</li><li>A value (number/uint256)</li><li>A recorder (address of the issuer)</li><li>Timestamp (date of the underlying certification - can differ from date of recording)</li><li>ExtraData (arbitrary data field that can be used by attesters)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td><strong>Attestations Collection</strong></td><td>The Attestations Registry is divided into attestation collections. A collection bundles owners that share some historical or reputation characteristics. </td></tr><tr><td><strong>Authorized Issuers</strong></td><td>Multiple types of issuers can be authorized to write in the attestation registry (attesters, bridges, front contracts etc..). Issuers must be authorized/unauthorized by Sismo's governance.</td></tr></tbody></table>

## Badges

<table><thead><tr><th width="150">Term</th><th width="434.4285714285714">Description</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td><strong>Badge</strong></td><td><p>A badge is a Token representation of an attestation. It is a stateless ERC1155 contract that reads balances from the attestation value</p><ul><li>Example: the balance of a user for badge #1535 is its value for the attestation collection #1535 If the user does not have an attestation in the collection #1535, its balance will be null</li></ul></td></tr></tbody></table>
